# stevenrodasmnd613.github.io
Datawrapper chart: https://datawrapper.dwcdn.net/SKfl5/2/

GitHub page:

This October marks the 5-year-anniversary of the 2017 Las Vegas mass shooting. On the first of that month half-a-decade ago, a 64-year-old man from Mesquite, Nevada, named Stephen Paddock unloaded his weapon into a crowd of music festival goers on the Las Vegas strip. “(Paddock) committed the largest mass casualty shooting in this country’s history. Fifty-eight people were killed, approximately 887 people sustained documented injuries. Of those 869 people, 413 sustained a gunshot wound or shrapnel-type injury,” the Las Vegas Metropolitan Police Department said in a report released in August 2018. The department later updated those figures to 61 deaths (including the perpetrator and two victims who died in 2019 and 2020) and 867 wounded (411 by gunfire).

Five years later, I wondered: How does Las Vegas as a city add up when considering mass shooting incidents in a larger span of time? Mother Jones created — and continued to update — a data set that would allow me to analyze just that. Here, I looked at a close to 40-year-span, from 1982 to 2021. Firstly, the Congressional Research Service defines a mass shooting as having 4 or more victims. I would encourage any curious parties to visit the set (which can be downloaded) and parse through for more important nuance on this topic. Non-profit Everytown for Gun Safety Support Fund, found the Las vegas shooting was among the five deadliest incidents in the U.S. involving the use of  assault weapon high-capacity magazines — with over 1,000 rounds discharged. Moreover, for my inquiry, I created a Datawrapper chart (a few actually) to look at a larger span of time. I determined that not only is Las Vegas significant as the location for among the deadliest shootings, it accounts for 6% of mass shooting fatalities and 37% of mass shooting injuries from 1982 to 2021. The shooting, according to a researcher referenced by Everytown, estimated the Las Vegas mass shooting cost at least $600 million — including “medical and mental health care, police work, work loss and employer expenses, and quality of life.” 

As a reporter working on a story, my next steps would be:
Trying to pin down figures between January and October 2022 to get a better 5-year picture (my Datawrapper chart reflects a 39-year span so would be great to determine 40 years and make a separate visualization between 2017-2022)
Reach out to law enforcement, community members, activists, residents, music festival attendees, families impacted, gun supporters, anti-gun groups and government officials to flesh out a longform article on this historic incident and how the city has evolved since the incident (laws, action or in-action, the impact of COVID on this subject matter, etc).
Expand piece by looking at mass shootings internationally in terms of cities with similar commercial and population makeups as Las Vegas

The many different chart versions I considered for this assignment:
